Good afternoon,
and welcome to session 613,
Migrating UNIX SysAdmin
Tools to Mac OS X.
I think we have a really nice panel
of experts who are going to tell
you about various experiences,
moving their tools over to
Mac OS X that will be very helpful.
We already know that Mac OS X is
the best development environment.
It's also a fantastic
SysAdmin environment.
And using all these Apple technologies,
wirelessly connected,
being able to manage giant racks of
servers in your data center is a blast.
It's a lot of fun.
Today we have Kevin Boyd,
who is going to,
from the University of Michigan,
who will explain what the environment
is like for the University of Michigan,
and their experience in bringing
over their tools for a very diverse
group of SysAdmins and managers.
Next up, Waqar Malik,
of our developer technical support,
is going to explain some of the gotchas,
importing over some of your scripts and
tools and applications you've written.
And finally, Mike Bombich, of our field.
He's one of the world's leading
field consulting engineers,
well known for his work on the side and
his fantastic tools that we all use.
He's going to describe how to
build a great GUI interface on
top of those command line tools.
So first up,
I'd like to introduce Kevin Boyd,
University of Michigan,
and on the steering
committee of MacOSXlabs.org.
Kevin?
Thanks a lot, Skip.
Hi.
Today,
I'm going to talk to you guys about
how we as developers can work with
administrators from all different
types of computing platforms to create
applications that administrators
will want to use in Mac OS X.
Who am I?
That's a good question.
I'm an administrator at
the University of Michigan,
and also I am one of the steering
committee members for the UEF lab
group that also runs the site
that's known as macostenlabs.org.
And my responsibilities
primarily have been,
in relationship to this project,
the development of lab management tools
that ease the transition from some
other computing platform to Mac OS X.
At the University of Michigan,
this is a very complex environment known
as a distributed computing environment,
which has a lot of potential challenges
for administrators and developers.
Because of the distributed
computing environment,
there's the ability given to our
administrators to pick any type of
computing platforms and any type of
operating systems that they may want to
run inside of their own environments.
And we'll get into more detail--
[Transcript missing]
If we go back in time,
we can look at how Mac OS 9 was
managed at the University of Michigan,
and we can start to see why
administrators liked the Macintosh
experience when it came to managing
machines in their environment.
It was easy to manage because
of the operating system.
It had an easy-to-use interface,
it was intuitive,
and it didn't take a lot of
learning for you to understand
how to use a Macintosh computer.
It was accepted for users to go out,
administrators to go out onto the net,
contact third parties,
do whatever it takes to make the
machine a secure and consistent
computing platform for you inside
of a lab management environment.
At the same time, on our campus,
we had many other platforms
that were UNIX-based.
And these people had skills that
allowed them to manage their machines,
but the learning curve
was incredibly steep.
And the ability to manage the
machines was incredibly difficult.
And these two groups really could
not have skills that transferred
from one group to the other.
We at Michigan saw Mac OS X as
an opportunity to take all of our
experiences creating utilities and
tools for managing machines in OS 9 and
in UNIX and combining them in such a way
that we could have truly the holy grail
of computing and lab administration,
which would be ease of use,
ease of migration, ease of integration,
and also to be able to say,
I have skills that I've gained
from learning how to use this
machine that can be transferred
from other computing platforms.
I have a skill set that applies not
only to these Macintosh computers,
but can also be used in
other environments as well.
So we've leveraged our
experiences in these environments,
and we've developed applications
that you've heard about throughout
the week or at our site,
or we can talk about them here too,
that have really taken advantage
of all this experience.
The challenge has been,
how are we going to continue to make
tools that administrators want to use?
So let's take a look at one of the places
where I had a chance to spend some time
at the University of Michigan developing
tools for Mac OS 9 users.
And from there,
we can decide whether or not these
are-- why was this so successful?
What did we do that was so successful?
What happened here that
we can tell developers,
go out and do this,
and it will make Mac OS 9
users want to use Mac OS X?
As we've already stated,
the University of Michigan is a
distributed computing environment,
and with the freedoms that we
allow administrators to have,
it presents enterprise computing
at its most complex level,
because there's freedoms
in terms of hardware,
software, data, people,
and procedures that we let the
administrators have in order to
create their computing environment.
At the same time,
we want to have the users that use
these computers' computing environments
to have a consistent computing
experience from one lab to another.
So let's focus,
narrow our discussion a little bit,
and talk about the School of Art and
Design at the University of Michigan.
I spent a lot of time with
the OS 9 administrators there,
and that's really where
I became involved in OS X.
So here we have the traditional
view of Mac OS 9 and why
people like using Mac OS 9,
and we have the traditional view
of UNIX and how people use UNIX and
what was good about each platform.
Utilities like Assimilator
were nice because,
well, to put it simply,
it was easy to use.
It didn't require you to know a lot
about the underpinnings of the machine
in order to manage a large set of
computers in your computing environment.
However, tools like this and almost all
the tools that were available
for Mac OS X didn't scale.
They weren't readily usable in
a wide range of machines across
an entire computing enterprise.
While, on the other hand,
the UNIX operating systems gave you all
of the network integration technologies
that you needed for enterprise computing,
but learning how to implement them,
learning how to use them correctly,
and learning how to make them fit
into your environment required an
incredibly steep learning curve.
So we have the problem laid out.
How do we create tools that
administrators will use?
Well, I think the first thing we need
to do is identify the expectations
and the benefits that can be gained
from looking at our core audience.
Who are we trying to help?
Who are we trying to create
these applications for?
I think they can be
divided into three groups.
You have your diehard
Mac OS 9 administrators.
These are people who even
today are still not migrated,
still have not decided to
take a look at Mac OS X.
You have your hardcore
UNIX administrators.
These are people who,
they may say things like,
Mac OS X isn't a real OS.
It's not a real UNIX.
Well, we all know it is,
and it's up to us as developers
to prove to them that it is.
And you have your
Mac OS X administrators.
These are people who realize the power
of UNIX because of the ease of Aqua and
the underpinnings of the UNIX subsystem.
So they have expectations as well.
Meeting all three of their needs,
I think, is just the first step into
creating an application that
not only will these people use,
but it will find uses that
you may never have thought of.
What do Mac OS 9 administrators want?
Mac OS 9 administrators,
they want to know what your
application does before you
even tell them what it does.
They want to be able to look on the
screen and know intuitively what to do.
They want help in the form of
tool tips or any other type of
documentation on screen if it's
not readily apparent to you or to
them what their application does.
For OS X, they want it to look like it
belongs in OS X if it came from
some other operating system,
even if that other operating system was
a previous Macintosh operating system.
And obviously,
if they're running it in Mac OS X and
you've brought it from some other
platform they may be familiar with,
it should not require any learning curve.
Hardcore UNIX administrators, of course,
want things like command lines and
terminal windows and man pages.
I'm sure all of you heard
this a million times over,
and they're all there in Mac OS X.
And as developers,
it's up to us to give them
what they want because,
obviously, that'll make them accept
this as a viable platform.
The question of source code
comes up whenever applications
are developed for any platform.
And I think the openness
that Apple's given us,
the chance for us to give
open source code out,
is another learning opportunity that
can show more people how to write
applications that'll solve problems
for their particular environments.
and there's Mac OS X administrators.
They realize all of this.
They've seen the light.
They understand what we're talking about.
They know the power that
they have in front of them,
and they expect all these things
out of a well-written application.
If your application is not well-written,
no matter how good it does
what it's supposed to do,
they're probably not going to use it.
They want everything OS 9 administrators,
UNIX administrators,
and other Mac OS X administrators
want from this application
that you've created.
The portability of your application
pretty much requires that you've
had experience writing this
application on other platforms,
but if you have,
they expect to be able to use
their skills and their scripts and
their command line utilities that
they've developed on other platforms
with your application as well.
So the standards are very high
for Mac OS X applications.
My own experience was with RSyncX,
and primarily the desire was to have an
application that hit all of these goals
and in the end gave us something that
at the time did not exist for Mac OS X,
which was a way for us to easily
move files across a network.
That was essentially our
mission statement for rsyncx.
We wanted to be able to
satisfy these audiences,
solve this problem,
and then provide documentation in such
a way that other people could look at
what we've done and say for themselves,
is this something I want to use?
Is this relevant?
Does this matter to me?
And even if it didn't matter to them,
it could be a source for them
to look at in order to learn
for themselves what it takes to
develop software for the platform.
So when we take all the
pieces that rsyncx has become,
the main application, the rsyncx CD,
and the package tools,
we see that we have all the pieces
of a puzzle that actually was laid
out before us long before we even
knew that this was going to be the
problem we were going to be solving.
And the problem was for us,
how are we going to get load sets out
to these machines and have OS X on all
of them and do it in such a way that
our Mac OS 9 administrators didn't
feel afraid of making the switch?
So now we've identified these audiences,
and we've tried to say
we're going to hit them.
We've worked--
and I are going to talk
about the development cycle
of the development cycle.
We started out on gathering
input based on these audiences,
and that came from the web,
it came from hands-on experiences
and face-to-face meetings.
And we decided that the best way to
make as many people happy as possible
is to create this development cycle.
And this development cycle would
hit the three components of a
typical Mac OS X application.
And those were the UNIX underpinnings,
the user interface, and documentation.
Shortchanging any of these three key
pieces of the development cycle would
lead to having unhappy users of your
application and potentially people who
don't want to use your application.
So we can take a look at how each
of these affects the final product
that you're trying to promote.
There are three pieces to the rsyncx
application and the rsyncx project,
and primarily what we're looking
at is a command line utility,
which is the rsync terminal
window application.
You can open up a terminal window,
and you'll see,
using rsync dash dash version,
which version of rsync you're running.
If it's the right one,
it'll say it has HFS plus support.
There's a GUI,
and the GUI is constantly under revision,
and as of 1.7,
it's still not much to look at,
but it does what it's supposed to do,
which is allow a user to understand
how this application works,
provides tool tips,
and generates scripts that are
highly portable so that other
UNIX admins can see what you've
done in this Mac OS X environment,
and they can instantly recognize
what you're trying to do.
And not only that,
they can use these scripts
in their platforms as well.
[Transcript missing]
Doing all these things as developers,
I think, is crucial.
I just don't think
there's any way around it.
I don't think there's any way
you can take shortcuts to get
to having an application that
people want to use in Mac OS X,
because all of this power is there,
and if you don't use it,
if you don't explain how to use it,
your application won't
be considered as viable.
But of course,
rsyncx is just a work in progress,
and it's just a piece in the puzzle,
and it doesn't do everything.
If you needed to backup
machines to local hard drives,
you can use rsyncx.
If you needed to distribute
load sets across wide numbers,
large numbers of machines
across a network,
you can use rsyncx.
Are there other tools that
do the exact same thing?
Yes.
So there are alternatives out there.
If you find them and they're more useful,
there's nothing wrong
with using them either.
The idea here is just that this solves
a problem for a potential audience,
and it's up to you to decide,
how do I make my application
do the same thing?
There's a lot of other discussions
out there about things like comments,
like version tracker, for example.
If you have good or bad press
regarding your software,
do you like it, do you not like it?
I say there's nothing
wrong with bad press.
There's nothing wrong with
having an application that
people are making comments about,
good or bad.
Because guess what?
That means they've
tried your application,
they know whether or not they like it,
and they're letting you know
what you need to change in
order for them to use it.
So there's really no
such thing as bad press.
And of course,
when you're developing your software,
I encourage you to use
the developer's tool CD.
Because the people at Apple have
gone out of their way to create
this machine that is viewed as a
good cooperative network citizen.
And it's up to us to make
sure it stays that way.
Thank you.
So now I think I'm
going to let Waqar talk.
I believe I'm done about
migrating UNIX SysAdmin Tools and
porting command line tools.
Thanks.
So if you went to the
Apple Developers Tools for UNIX,
this talk will look familiar
to you because a lot of the
same stuff is told in here.
So you're a SysAdmin,
and you have some application
that you have developed.
They're not shell script,
but they're actually an
application that you run.
So this talk, what we're going to do...
show you how you can bring your
applications to Mac OS X easily
and quite confidently that
it will work on Mac OS X.
And it will tell you areas to investigate
what to do and where to look for
information and what you need to do.
What you will learn from
this talk is supported APIs,
compatibility APIs,
and some different APIs that may not
be equivalent in other UNIX platforms,
or you have equivalent of those.
And it's very easy to port applications
to Mac OS X because it is UNIX.
So if your UNIX application
runs on another platform,
it will be very easy.
So this is what your
application will look like.
So you have the top layer,
which is your application.
You have libraries that you link in,
frameworks, which we'll explain later,
LibSystem, which is equivalent to
LibC on other platforms,
but much more.
And then you have the kernel and the BSD,
the Mach,
and the IOCit available for you.
What you will need.
Make sure that you do not
uncheck the BSD subsystem
when you're installing the OS.
And when you're installing
the developer tools,
make sure you select BSD SDK and
the X11 SDK so you can develop
X11 applications as well.
So the tool chain is mostly GNU-based.
So you have GCC, GDB, GMake.
We also have BSDMake for
transitional purposes only,
but GMake is the default,
and you should be using that.
We have other tools like Xcode,
environment that you saw in the keynote,
Interface Builder,
and malloc-debug for debugging,
and some other performance tools that
you can use to tune your application.
There are three different
compilers installed on Mac OS X.
Three different versions
of the C compiler.
So you have 3.3, 3.1, and 2.95.
The reason is we want to be able to
target kernel extensions back to 10.1,
so you need to use 2.95,
and then for 10.2, we have 3.1,
and for 10.3, we have 3.1.
There are three ways you
can select a compiler.
The best thing to do is just
use GCC Select that will set
your compiler that you want,
and then everything else uses that.
Or you can set the option in Xcode,
or you can just call directly
from the command line to
whatever compiler you want.
Before you're doing it yourself,
if you're porting an
open source application,
check porting environments,
porting systems that are available
that if somebody has ported it already.
So there's Darwin Ports, Fink,
and Mac OS X Downloads on Apple's site.
And if you do port it,
please submit a port to these systems
so that you have a large collection
so the next person comes along has
the application already ready to run.
Porting script is very easy.
It's just the same tools that you have.
So you'll see Shell, Perl, Tickle.
These are all installed by default.
Our Shell is Bash,
so it shouldn't be a problem there.
If you want to script GUI applications,
Apple Script to your friend.
Mike Bombich will explain how
he uses that quite easily.
So the end result is very easy to
bring your scripts to Mac OS X.
Primary file system,
we use HFS+. We have many,
many file systems on Mac OS X.
The main one,
HFS+, has differences from the UFS,
which is the standard
UNIX file system people use.
Case-sensitive is not there.
Case-preserving, yes.
So when you type a file
name with a certain case,
it will preserve that,
but if you type the same file name
with a different arrangement of cases,
then it will be the same.
Resource forks, so Mac OS 9 people know
what resource forks are.
And journaling,
we have added journaling to HFS+, so
it's faster and easier to recover.
RSyncX also supports HFS+,
so when you're syncing files,
you can take resource
forks along with you.
The issues come when traditional
Mac users start using Mac OS X.
They tend to put spaces in file names.
Unix user node,
never to put spaces in file names.
Always use extensions,
so Mac OS X users have
type and creator code,
so they stick with that.
and then also some of the
application use resource forks,
so you'll have to worry about that.
And Mac OS users are used to
using aliases as opposed to links.
And for UNIX, it doesn't quite know
what to do with aliases,
so you have to be careful on that.
Libraries.
On Mac OS X, we have our own linker,
and the way we do our libraries,
it supports versioning, plugins,
and we differentiate between
bundles and libraries.
The extension for the libraries is Dylib.
So if you're used to .sos,
you have to be careful.
Static linking is very rarely used,
so everything is pretty much shared.
Frameworks.
I'll explain what frameworks are,
which is also available.
And lib system, which is,
encompasses a lot of Mathlib, Lib C,
and other libraries that just sits at the
bottom so that everybody can access that.
Bundles.
What are bundles?
Bundles are...
Things that you put
together and make an object.
So you can put executable code,
Other resources such as language
translations and things like that,
or you can have multiple
architectures in the bundles.
And it's very easy.
You just drag one item in the
finder to install and to uninstall.
And examples are you have frameworks,
which are bundles,
and compound documents such as RTFD,
which has text and images.
and frameworks.
Framework is a bundle where
you have the actual library,
the headers, the documentation,
other resources that go along
with it so that you don't have to
put your headers somewhere else
and the libraries somewhere else.
They're all in one nice, neat package,
and they can be moved around
easily and they can be used.
System libraries are installed in system
library frameworks where you should not
install those because Apple reserves
that place to install their own.
But you should install them in
either slash library frameworks,
network library frameworks,
in your user's home
directory library frameworks,
or in the application's
contents frameworks,
depending on how you want
to expose the framework.
So, depending on how it's done.
Two-level namespace.
It's a very large issue or topic
that can't be covered in this talk,
but it's basically how you access
variables with the same name in global
space because we can have the same name
in different bundles and frameworks,
so there's no collisions
and things like that.
And it was default starting in 10.1,
but you can go back to flat
file namespace if you want to,
but it's not recommended.
So, that's the first thing.
and David Koeppel,
and I'm going to give you a little bit
of a brief overview of what we're doing.
Runtime issues,
if you want to save preferences,
system preferences,
you should be using Open Directory.
And if you want to save user preferences,
then NS preferences and CFPreferences,
they're equivalent.
You should be using that.
And startup scripts.
BSD never really had a good
system to manage startup scripts,
so we developed our own,
similar to System 5.
But ours is a bundle,
so it has the script,
it has the localization,
and other documentation that
you want to put in there.
And they're located in system library
startups for the Apple-supplied ones,
and then for you,
it's library startup items.
Pre-binding.
Because of the speed that we
want to gain from our linker,
we pre-bind the symbols at runtime.
So that could cause a problem for
applications like backup and security
because they think the file has changed.
Either you can't get access
or you can't back them up.
So you have to be careful about that.
authentication and authorization are
and David We're going to talk
about the security framework.
The security framework
is a good place to start.
The system is rights-based system,
so you give a right to a user to
perform certain actions and we
have great APIs to go with that.
The Apple security framework
is a good place to start.
PAM is available for
compatibility reasons only.
So if you're bringing -- you
don't want to change your code,
but our security framework based
on CDSA is a better way to go.
GUI options.
We have lots of GUI options.
Cocoa, Carbon, X11, and now Qt.
Troll Tech has made it dual license and
open source and a commercial version,
so you can get a native Mac OS X version
of Qt and use that as well.
For multimedia,
if you want higher-level mixed media,
QuickTime is the way to go.
Low-level, CoreRadio, CoreMidi.
Benefits is it's very fast,
it's very easy...
[Transcript missing]
Internationalization.
We have CFString and CFLocale,
which is recommended API,
and now Panther has WCartT supported,
and you can use that,
but we would recommend that you
use CFString and CFLocale because
we will bring forward new...
Precompiled headers.
Jaguar had a problem with this,
but Panther has a new way of
doing precompiled headers,
and it's much less of an
issue than it was on Jaguar.
If you have a problem,
that's the first place to start.
Turn off precompiled headers,
and usually stuff works.
So to turn them off, dash no CPP precomp,
and don't use traditional
because that's not recommended.
It's deprecated.
Even though it turns off, no precomp,
but you get a lesser level
of GCC or C standard.
Linker, Apple's own Linker.
It's a single pass,
so you have to put your libraries
and frameworks at the end of your
object file so you can get symbols.
Lazy initialization of variables,
so it's really a problem
for C++ so that your static
initializers don't get called.
So you have to be careful there.
And it does pre-binding.
Flag is not supported,
so you should be using dynamic
to make dynamic libraries.
So what's new in Panther?
We have WCAR.
They buy ConvertICU,
so all the... It's new,
but it's not recommended for
you to use at this point because
of the binary compatibility.
But if you really have to use it,
then you can use it.
Asynchronous I.O.
Everybody was asking for that.
Poll.
It didn't make it to this seed,
but it is scheduled to go in,
so in the final release,
you will have poll.
DL open and DL close.
Same.
It's scheduled to go in,
but didn't make it.
The DL close and DL open
library is the libcompact,
which is available in Dalton ports.
So in the meantime, you can use that.
and Ports Manager GUI.
So this is a large collection
of ports that are available.
So this is a nice GUI in
application utilities.
You just double click and see the list
of applications that are available
and then just say install and then
you have that application available
for GUI and command line tools.
So that's it for me.
And we'll have Mike Bombich
come in and explain how he
uses his Apple script to --
Thank you, Waqar.
So Waqar spent some time basically giving
you some of the logistics of moving
your SysAdmin Tools up to Mac OS X.
What I would like to spend some time on
is telling you about how you're going
to get Mac users to actually use them.
So let's face it, Mac users need a GUI.
In the UNIX world,
GUI is a four-letter word.
In the Mac world, GUI is essential.
Apple has introduced several developer
tools that make this a lot easier.
Package Maker can help you with
any command line tools that
you use to distribute software.
They've got Property List Editor in
there for configuring,
for editing any configuration files.
And then there's some other
tools like Apple Script Studio,
Project Builder, Interface Builder,
for actually putting a GUI onto some
of your command line-based scripts.
And that's what I'd like
to focus my time on,
is Apple Script Studio.
Apple Script Studio,
and I won't get into all the various
acronyms that people have assigned to it.
It's based on three technologies:
Apple Script, Project Builder,
and Interface Builder.
It was introduced in Mac OS 10.1.2,
so it's only supported
on that OS and higher.
And it's implemented in the form of three
project templates in Project Builder.
And there's over 30 sample
projects to help you get started
coding in Apple Script Studio.
So some of this stuff is
going to be fairly basic,
and bear with me, but as much as this
may go without saying,
it's sometimes important
to actually say it.
Developing a GUI,
step one is making sure that
it works at the command line.
You want to make sure that all
the functionality of your script,
everything that you want to get done,
is going to work in a shell script
in a command line environment.
Once you've got everything working
for one particular scenario,
go ahead and generalize that shell script
and make sure it functions in every
possible scenario in your environment.
Another very important thing to keep in
mind is these are Mac people out here.
While Mac people are very, very,
very intelligent, very intelligent,
they are not Unix savvy in general.
So you have to anticipate
non-Unix user input,
like maybe spaces and path
names and special characters,
things like that.
So anticipate non-Unix user input when
you're preparing your shell script.
So once you have a shell script
built and it's doing all of
your SysAdmin stuff or whatever,
now it's time to go ahead and
create a project in Project Builder.
There's three options.
You can make just a regular
Apple script application,
and this is the most common thing.
You can make a document-based
application if you wanted to make
something like a text editor,
or you can make a droplet application
if you wanted to have the functionality
of being able to drop files and folders
onto the application and then have it
do something to those files and folders.
After you've created your project,
actually the first step after you've
created your project is to mock up
your interface in Interface Builder.
Now this is a very non-trivial step.
In the Unix world,
you write a shell script,
it does something,
it maybe asks the user to type
in some text at the command line,
and as it's working,
maybe it dumps some text out.
A GUI is very different than this.
You have many different ways that
you can have the user give input.
You've got buttons and
menu items and checkboxes.
All sorts of things like that.
And then you have different ways of
providing output and giving people
feedback as to how things are going.
So you need to think about how you're
going to give feedback to the user.
You've got progress bars and dialog
windows and all sorts of things.
So it's very important to give the
end user a really good experience
and not just dump out text or
pop up a window and ask for text.
So once you've mocked up your interface,
you'll go back to Project Builder,
and then you'll attach parts
of your script's functionality
to specific interface objects.
So in Apple Script Studio,
you'll use that do shell script function
to just take a particular shell script or
just a particular command and attach it
to an action like the click of a button.
One very important thing to
remember here is GUI applications
are not linear like shell scripts.
You're not just going to write up
your shell script and plug it into
Apple Script Studio and away you go.
You're probably going to have to
break that script up and attach
specific actions or specific
commands to various things that
happen within that user interface.
You'll probably use global
variables a lot more often
because of that non-linearity.
So some of the other things that
you're going to want to keep
in mind are security issues.
Does your script require
admin privileges?
If so, how are we going to get
that password from the user?
Is the admin user even
the logged-in user?
You're going to have to
think about things like this.
If you just have one command
that requires admin privileges,
then you can just use
Apple Script Studio's built-in
functionality to retrieve the password.
Otherwise,
you'll want to consider prompting
the user for the password
and storing it in a variable.
You also want to think about
whether or not preferences
would suit this utility well.
Apple Script Studio provides an
object called the user defaults
object that you can use and access
to -- you can manipulate that
object to access a preference file
in the user's preferences folder.
Finally, you really need to keep in mind,
you need to learn about
your environmental variables
and your working directory.
Don't just walk into this thinking that
you've got the same working environment
that you would at the terminal.
You don't even have the same shell.
There's actually a really
nice tech info article,
I think it's called.
It's number 2065 if anyone's
interested in learning about how to
work with DShell script and how it
compares to the terminal environment.
Okay, so logistics aside,
let's go ahead and move
over to the demo machine.
All right.
So what we have here is-- let's say
that you're an IT administrator,
and your supervisor has just tasked
you with creating a software library.
You've got several hundred CDs,
and in the past, they've just been thrown
on a shelf or something,
and they get damaged.
Actually,
could you take me back to the slides?
There was one slide that
had all this up there.
Sorry about that.
So you've got a couple hundred CDs.
Usually they get chucked on a
shelf and scratched or lost.
And a CD is checked out,
so only one person can
access it at a time.
You actually have to have one
person that's assigned the
task of managing that library.
And you'd rather not do that.
I don't know, maybe you'd rather be
surfing the internet.
So in the end,
it's just not a very good system.
So what you've decided to do--
Instead of sharing the
actual physical disks,
you notice that in Mac OS X,
there's an extensive
disk images framework.
And you notice that there's a
really cool thing that you can do.
You can make disk images of the
CDs and then stick them up on your
X server running the Apache web server.
And then you can host
these images remotely.
And with just this little
command right at the bottom,
you can mount that disk image remotely.
So you can host hundreds of
images on your server somewhere,
and then people can remotely
use this command and mount that
disk image right there on their
desktop and have access to it.
So now to the demo.
All right,
so the first thing you want to do is
you want to kind of start out basic,
just create a shell script that
implements that functionality.
So this is probably a bit hard to see,
so we'll just blow that up a little bit.
So you create a basic shell script that
includes the path to that disk image,
or just one of the disk images.
You didn't create all 100 disk images,
you just started with one.
And you included that in the script,
and then the first thing it does
is just mounts that disk image.
So we'll go ahead and run
this script in the terminal.
You'll see what happens.
It just mounts that disk image
right there on the desktop,
and you have access to
all the software there.
So it's a pretty basic concept.
Obviously,
this is not going to be very scalable.
Are you going to include the URL to
all 100 or 200 or 300 CD images?
Probably not.
So the next incarnation, you decide, hey,
I've got a great idea.
I'll just have the user enter the URL.
This is great.
I'll never have to
touch the script again.
They just type in the URL.
So why don't we go ahead and do that?
We'll run this script.
and enter the path to the remote-- path?
Is it on a local volume or was it?
So we'll just go ahead and
type-- we'll pretend that
I actually know what I'm doing.
[Transcript missing]
So you get the point.
Obviously, this isn't going to be a very
useful solution for your end users.
So ideally, you would want to keep...
All of those,
the path to all of those images
right there in your script.
So that's what we have here.
So in this script, you decide,
I'll just keep the addresses to all
those images right here in the script,
and I'll present that list to the user,
ask them to choose one,
and then I'll mount the
one that they choose.
So this is pretty cool.
We'll go ahead and run this script.
So it presents a list, 0, 1, 2, 3.
Why don't we go ahead and pick number one
and mount that disk image on the desktop.
So that's another thing you can try.
You realize, though, that's...
That's crazy.
I mean, if I want to add another
disk image to my CD library,
what am I going to do?
Am I going to edit that script
and redeploy it to the 500 people
that I had already deployed it to?
Probably not.
That's going to be a
maintenance nightmare.
And didn't we start this project to
decrease maintenance in the first place?
Yeah, we did.
So being the clever IT guy that you are,
you notice when you--
[Transcript missing]
and then go out to a web page and
select just the image or the directory
that the images are hosted in,
you get this nice little list of all the
images dynamically generated by Apache.
If you take a look at the source,
You can see... I could
parse the heck out of that.
It's got nice little tags right here.
I could use that as a delimiter,
and maybe I could use something
like that as a delimiter.
But hey, this is cool because this
dynamically generated a list of
all the images in this directory.
Why don't I just grab that list,
parse that list for the images,
present that list of images to the user,
the user picks an image,
I mount the image.
So why don't we go ahead and try that.
That's what this script is.
What we do is we just have
the base URL and a variable,
and then we curl down the list,
that Apache generated index.
We use grep, sed, awk,
whatever else you want to use.
And believe me,
I'm sure there's probably at least a
dozen people out there that could do
this in maybe three letters or something,
but I'm not the guy.
But in the end,
you've got this little script that
will parse out those image names.
So, make this a little bit wider.
We're going to run this script.
So you can see the first
thing that it was really,
really very fast.
It curled down that index file,
and then it presented this.
And you could type something like
clear after this to clear that out,
make it a little prettier.
And then it presents that list of images.
So why don't we go ahead
and choose number-- well,
how about number nine?
Zero.
Yeah, number zero.
Like I said,
there's lots of people that could
have done this a lot better.
And there we go.
It went ahead and mounted
the image that I selected.
So in just, you know, what is that,
a dozen lines of code,
you've created this, you,
the clever IT guy, or girl, has,
you've created this nice little
script that will read a dynamically
generated list of disk images
and monitor for the end user.
So now that we've got this
script fully functional in
the command line environment,
we're going to go ahead and
go over to Project Builder.
And, oh, look at that,
there's already a project made.
So create a new project.
And we'll go ahead and just pick
Apple Script Application and
call it whatever.
And in the interest of time,
I've already got all the text entered.
But it'll create this project for you.
And the first thing we'll do is
we'll go ahead and go into Interface
Builder and mock up an interface.
Now, this is going to be a
very basic application.
I mean, the only thing that we're doing,
we're presenting a list
of images to the user,
and they're going to pick an image,
and they want to mine it.
So we really only need a
couple interface items here.
I've got a table.
Where's my inspector?
Tools, thank you.
It's on by default in mine.
We'll go into the inspector and
we'll give our table a name,
call it the images, or that's the view,
and then the table.
And then we've got
just this other button.
We'll call it mount image,
and when this button is clicked,
we want it to do something
in this script right here.
So we attach some functionality
to the clicked handler in
the application Apple script.
So this is really all there is
to mocking up this interface,
just a table view and a button.
[Transcript missing]
and take a look at the script.
Now, when you click on that checkbox in
Interface Builder that attaches that
unclicked handler to that button,
it automatically generates some
handlers inside of your Apple script.
So the first thing that
we're going to do is,
instead of having to have the
user actually do something
to generate that list,
I just want it generated automatically
as soon as the application is launched.
So we're going to use the
onAwakeFromNib handler,
and what it's going to do,
it'll create...
How about we just do this?
Is that better?
Okay, it's not too important.
I'm going to pretty much
talk you through it.
So we're going to dynamically
generate the data source.
It's just a detail.
But then I've got
basically two functions,
this extractImageNames function and
then the populateTable function.
So the extractImageNames
function is going to...
Use the do shell script command
right here to curl down that
dynamically generated index,
and then do some various stuff
to parse out the information.
Now, you can see here I used sed,
but I also used some
AppleScript to do some parsing.
I honestly don't care.
I'm not a hardcore AppleScript guy
that says I'm going to use
AppleScript and use do shell
script as very little as possible.
And I'm not a Unix guy that says,
I'm going to use awk till the day I die.
Use whatever works.
And I found out that, you know,
you saw that item zero
that was alt whatever.
I could not figure out
how to get that fixed,
so I just decided to throw in
some AppleScript and use that
to help me do the parsing.
So this is actually a very nice
tool in that you can mix multiple
environments to get the desired result.
So in the end,
I just return that list of images,
and then we populate that table.
So that's what happened on startup.
Now I've got this unclicked handler.
And this is going to be very simple.
The user will pick an item in that table.
The un-click handler will determine
the index of that item and then
pull that whatever item that is
out of the list of disk images,
which is kept in a global variable.
And then it will do shell script,
HDIUtilMount,
and that particular disk image.
And then I provide some feedback,
because you're working in this
application and something's
happening somewhere else.
So I'm just going to throw up a
dialogue there that says the image
should now be mounted on your desktop.
So we'll go ahead and build
and run this application.
And wow, that was really fast.
A lot faster than my PowerBook.
So the first thing it did
was it curled down that
dynamically generated index page,
parsed out that list,
populates this table
with that list of items,
and now the user can pick an item.
And why don't we go
ahead and pick this one?
Click on an item, click on Mount Image.
Image should now be
mounted on your desktop.
So that is all there is to it.
So let's go ahead and go back to slides.
Now you can get really fancy with this.
and David That was a very,
very simple example.
Bah.
You can get very,
very -- I don't know what
happened to my image,
but --
[Transcript missing]
But you can get very,
very fancy with this.
We'll just open up the nib file.
Oh, sorry, could you switch back
to the demo machine?
So like I said,
you can get really fancy with this.
You can create preferences.
Good grief, that's a really old version.
And you can throw in lots of
functionality and make something so fancy
that it can clone one disk to another.
That's one thing that I've done.
But this is a great tool,
and basically you can do just about
anything if you use Apple's developer
tools to put a GUI on your script,
and you can really extend
it to many other audiences.
So with that, I think I'll go ahead and
hand this back over to Skip.
Thank you.
We've tried to make it fun,
tried to present a wide range of
information for system administrators
coming from a lot of different areas.
These are some more information.
Obviously,
a good place to start if you're
brand new to the platform,
got to read
Inside Mac OS X System Overview.
The UNIX Porting Guide is also
an excellent place to start.
and Mike's team at Microsoft.
The tech note that Mike mentioned,
calling Apple script from an application,
excellent.
And Mike has offered the source
code for the application he
just demoed up on his website,
and he'll keep that up there
for some period of time.
And there's the URL for that.
Thank you, Mike.
Who to contact?
Bringing over an application,
some of the larger applications,
any place you get hung up or stuck,
that's exactly what
developer relations is for.
You can contact myself,
I'm the server technology evangelist.
Waqar Malik in developer
technical support,
that's exactly what they're there for.
And Mike Bombich has even relented
to be contacted directly as well.
Kevin Boyd at the University of Michigan,
the Mac OS X Deployment Coordinator,
should you wish to talk to him.
It's been a good week for you, Mish,
already, I think.
Radman D.
and Fugu were both honored
at the Apple Design Awards.
He's also a member of the
rsyncx development team.
Roadmap.
Obviously, some of these sessions
have already happened,
so be sure to check them out on the DVDs
or Apple Tools for the UNIX Developer,
Introduction to the Tools Suite, GCC,
and Debugging.
And then of course, I think,
a wealth of information
at macos10labs.org.
Yes, and don't enter a space in that
URL or you'll get a nasty surprise.
and obviously being an
open source project,
you can find the source code
to rsync_hfs@opendarwin.org.
and David Koehn.
We're going to be doing a lot
of AppleScript Studio sessions.
Sal Segoia is going to deliver
a session called AppleScript vs.
Admins that's really free-wheeling.
He's going to go into a lot more
detail about how to take really
fun things you never thought
you could do with AppleScript,
attaching very nice
GUIs to command line tools.
And with that,
I'd like to open it up to Q&A.